Architectural overview (#682)
XanaduAI/pennylane: doc/development/guide/architecture.rst

.. role:: html(raw)
   :format: html

Architectural overview
======================

> PennyLane allows optimization and machine learning of quantum and hybrid

Reviewer: Is it correct to say that `PennyLane allows machine learning of computations`? I would probably reformulate this sentence. :thinking:

Author: That's a fair point! I've reformulated it

hybrid quantum-classical computations. The library provides a unified
architecture for near-term quantum computing devices, supporting various

> quantum information paradigms.

Reviewer 2: Really nice intro!

Author: as a matter of fact took some help from the [abstract](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1811.04968.pdf) here :smile:

Reviewer 2: 😆

PennyLane's core feature is the ability to compute gradients of variational
quantum circuits in a way that is compatible with classical techniques such as
backpropagation. PennyLane thus extends the automatic differentiation
algorithms common in optimization and machine learning to include quantum and

> `hybrid computations
> <https://pennylane.ai/qml/glossary/hybrid_computation.html#backpropagation-through-hybrid-computations>`__.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:doc:`hybrid computations <glossary/hybrid_computation>`.
```

Devices
*******

In PennyLane, the abstraction of a quantum computation device is encompassed
within the :class:`~.Device` class, making it one of the basic components of
the library. The :class:`~.Device` class provides a common API for accessing quantum
devices, independent of both the type of device (both simulators and hardware are supported),
as well as the quantum information model used.

In particular, the :class:`~.Device` class provides a common API for:

* Initializing various device parameters such as the number of samples/shots,

* Executing quantum circuits,

* Retrieving measurement and state results (including samples, measurement
  statistics, and probabilities).

There are also device subclasses available, containing shared logic for
particular types of devices.  For example, qubit-based devices can inherit from
the :class:`~.QubitDevice` class, easing development.

To register a new device with PennyLane, they must register an `entry point
<https://packaging.python.org/specifications/entry-points/>`__ under the `pennylane.plugins`
namespace using Setuptools. Once registered, the device can be instantiated using the :func:`~.device`
loader function.

> A Python package that registers one or more PennyLane device is known as a *plugin*. For more details

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Python package that registers one or more PennyLane devices is known as a *plugin*. For more details
```

quantum functions can be expressed by a linear combination of the other quantum
function. As these rules allow quantum gradients to be obtained from QNodes,
hybrid computations may include QNodes as part of training deep learnings
models.

Users don't typically instantiate QNodes directly---instead, the :func:`~.qnode` decorator or
:func:`~.QNode` constructor function automates the process of creating a QNode from a provided
quantum function and device. The constructor attempts to determine the ``"best"`` QNode
subclass/differentiation method for the provided device and interface. For more fine-grained control,
the differentiation method can be specified directly via the ``diff_method`` option.

A common representation of quantum circuits is by creating a `Directed
Acyclic Graph (DAG)
<https://pennylane.ai/qml/glossary/hybrid_computation.html#directed-acyclic-graphs>`__
and representing quantum operations within such a graph. Each ``QNode``
represents the quantum circuit by building such a DAG by creating a
:class:`~.CircuitGraph` instance.

For further details on QNodes, and a full list of QNodes with their custom

> differentiation rule, refer to the :doc:`/code/qml_qnodes` module.

Reviewer 2: :+1:

Interfaces
**********

The integration between classical and quantum computations is encompassed by
interfaces. QNodes that provide black-box gradient rules are 'wrapped' by an interface function.
These wrappers further transform
the ``QNode`` such that the quantum gradient rules of the QNodes are registered
to the machine learning interface via a custom gradient class or function.

Typically, an interface integrates QNodes with external libraries as follows:

* It wraps the QNode, returning a QNode that accepts and returns the core data

>   structure of the classical machine learning library (e.g., a TF tensor, Torch

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  structure of the classical machine learning library (e.g., a TensorFlow or PyTorch
```

.. role:: html(raw)
   :format: html

Architectural overview
======================

PennyLane allows optimization and machine learning of quantum and hybrid
quantum-classical computations. The library provides a unified architecture for
near-term quantum computing devices, supporting various quantum information
paradigms.

PennyLane's core feature is the ability to compute gradients of variational
quantum circuits in a way that is compatible with classical techniques such as
backpropagation. PennyLane thus extends the automatic differentiation
algorithms common in optimization and machine learning to include quantum and
`hybrid computations
<https://pennylane.ai/qml/glossary/hybrid_computation.html#backpropagation-through-hybrid-computations>`__.
A plugin system makes the framework compatible with any gate-based quantum
simulator or hardware.

Using PennyLane, quantum computing devices (``Devices``) can be used to
evaluate quantum nodes (``QNodes``) and to return statistics of the results. To
process the classical information obtained, ``Interfaces`` allow using

> accelerated machine learning libraries.

Author: agreed!

In most cases, computations with PennyLane are performed on a local machine
using a simulator. Through using PennyLane plugins, one can, however, also
utilize remote quantum devices and simulators.

Components of PennyLane
#######################

> .. image:: architecture_diagram.png

Author: thanks for catching that!

the :class:`~.QubitDevice` class, easing development.

To register a new device with PennyLane, they must register an `entry point
<https://packaging.python.org/specifications/entry-points/>`__under the `pennylane.plugins`
namespace using Setuptools. Once registered, the device can be instantiated using the :func:`~.device`
loader function.

A Python package that registers one or more PennyLane device is known as a *plugin*. For more details
on plugins and devices, see :doc:`/development/plugins`.

The purpose of the ``Device`` class can be summarized as:

* Providing a common API to execute a quantum circuit and request
  the measurement of the associated observable.
* Providing an easy way of developing a new device for PennyLane

QNodes
******

A  quantum node or QNode (represented by a subclass of
:class:`~.BaseQNode`) is an encapsulation of a function
:math:`f(x;\theta)=R^m\rightarrow R^n` that is executed using quantum
information processing on a quantum device.

Apart from incorporating quantum functions, QNodes also offer custom
quantum differentiation rules. Using the so-called `parameter-shift rules

> <https://pennylane.ai/qml/glossary/parameter_shift.html>`__, many quantum

Author: really cool, thank you!

functions can be expressed through the linear combination of other quantum
functions. As these rules allow quantum gradients to be obtained from
QNodes, hybrid computations may include QNodes as part of training deep

> learnings models.

Reviewer 2: A couple of suggestions here:

> Apart from **encapsulating** quantum functions, QNodes also **provide** ~custom~
> quantum differentiation rules. **Examples include** the parameter-shift rule, **where the derivative
> of** quantum functions can be expressed **by a** linear combination of **the** ~other~ quantum
> function. As these rules allow quantum gradients to be obtained from
> QNodes, hybrid computations may include QNodes as part of training deep
> learnings models.

> These QNode types are available to users through the :func:`~.qnode` decorator by
> passing the user-facing ``diff_method`` option. This decorator then uses the
> :func:`~.QNode` constructor function to create the specific type of qnode based on
> the device, interface, and quantum function. If ``diff_method`` option is not
> provided, the QNode constructor function attempts to determine the ``"best"``
> differentiation method, based on the available device and interface.

Reviewer 2: Minor suggestion: might be good to first introduce the QNode function before mentioning `diff_method`?

```suggestion
Users don't typically instantiate QNodes directly---instead, the :func:`~.qnode` decorator or
:func:`~.QNode` constructor function automates the process of creating a QNode from a provided
quantum function and device. The constructor attempts to determine the ``"best"`` QNode
subclass/differentiation method for the provided device and interface. For more fine-grained control,
the differentiation method can be specified directly via the ``diff_method`` option.
```
(feel free to modify!)

> A widespread representation of quantum circuits is by creating a `Directed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A common representation of quantum circuits is by creating a `Directed
```

Acyclic Graph (DAG)
<https://pennylane.ai/qml/glossary/hybrid_computation.html#directed-acyclic-graphs>`__
and representing quantum operations within such a graph. Each ``QNode``
represents the quantum circuit by building such a DAG by creating a
:class:`~.CircuitGraph` instance.

For further details on QNodes, and a full list of QNodes with their custom
differentiation rule, refer to the :doc:`/code/qml_qnodes` module.

Interfaces
**********

The integration between classical and quantum computations is encompassed by
interfaces. QNodes that provide black-box gradient rules are 'wrapped' by an interface function.

> that provide a 'wrapper' around QNodes such. These wrappers further transform

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These wrappers further transform
```

the ``QNode`` such that the quantum gradient rules of the QNodes are registered
to the machine learning interface via a custom gradient class or function.

> An interface integrates QNodes with external libraries by the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Typically, an interface integrates QNodes with external libraries as follows:
```

* It wraps the QNode, returning a QNode that accepts and returns the core data
  structure of the classical machine learning library (e.g., a TF tensor, Torch
  tensor, Autograd NumPy array, etc).

* It unwraps the input data structures to simple NumPy arrays, so that the
  quantum device can execute the user's quantum function.

* It registers the ``QNode.jacobian()`` method as a custom gradient method, so that
  the machine learning library can 'backpropagate' across the QNode, when
  integrated into a classical computation.

We refer to the :ref:`intro_interfaces` page for a more in-depth introduction
and a list of available interfaces.

Key design details
##################

The following are key design details related to how PennyLane works internally.

Operators
*********

Quantum operators are incorporated by the :class:`~.Operator` class which
contains basic information about the operator (e.g. number of parameters,
number of wires it acts on, etc.) and further convenience methods (e.g.

> :attr:`~.Operator.matrix`, :attr:`~.Operator.eigvals`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:attr:`~.Operator.matrix`, :attr:`~.Operator.eigvals`).
```

* the :class:`~.Observable` representing quantum observables specified for
  measurement.

Together with ``Operator``, these classes serve as base classes for quantum
operators.

Certain operators can serve as both quantum gates and observables (e.g.
:class:`~.PauliZ`, :class:`~.PauliX`, etc.). Such classes inherit from both
``Operation`` and ``Observable`` classes.

Quantum operators are used to build quantum functions
which are evaluated by a ``QNode`` on a bound device. Users can define such quantum
functions by creating regular Python functions and instantiating ``Operator``
instances in temporal order, one per line.

The following is an example of this using the :func:`~.qnode` decorator and a
valid pre-defined device (``dev``).

.. code-block:: python

    @qml.qnode(dev)
    def circuit():
        qml.PauliX(0)
        return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0))

Queuing of operators
********************

In PennyLane, the construction of quantum gates is separated from the specific
QNode that they belong to. QNode circuit construction happens only when the
QNode is evaluated. On QNode evaluation, the quantum function is executed.

> Operators are queued to the QNode on instantiation, by having :meth:`Operator.__init__`
> call the :meth:`Operator.queue` method. The operators themselves queue themselves to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Operators are queued to the QNode on instantiation, by having :meth:`.Operator.__init__`
call the :meth:`.Operator.queue` method. The operators themselves queue themselves to
```

the surrounding :class:`~.QueuingContext`.

> Measurement functions such as :meth:`qml.expval` are responsible for queuing observables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Measurement functions such as :func:`~.expval` are responsible for queuing observables.
```

* Providing an easy way of developing a new device for PennyLane

Qubit based devices can use shared utilities by using the
:class:`~.QubitDevice`.

QNodes
******

A  quantum node or ``QNode`` (represented by a subclass to
:class:`~.BaseQNode`) is an encapsulation of a function
:math:`f(x;\theta)=R^m\rightarrow R^n` that is executed using quantum
information processing on a quantum device.

Apart from incorporating quantum functions, ``QNodes`` also offer custom
quantum differentiation rules. Using the so-called `parameter-shift rules
<https://pennylane.ai/qml/glossary/parameter_shift.html>`__, many quantum
functions can be expressed through the linear combination of other quantum
functions. As these rules allow quantum gradients to be obtained from
``QNodes``, hybrid computations may include ``QNodes`` as part of training deep
learnings models.

PennyLane offers the following qnode types and differentiation rules:

* :class:`~.QubitQNode`: qubit parameter-shift rule
* :class:`~.CVQNode`: CV parameter-shift rule
* :class:`~.JacobianQNode`: finite differences
* :class:`~.DeviceJacobianQNode`: device based gradient rule
* :class:`~.PassthruQNode`: classical backpropagation

> * :class:`~.ReversibleQNode`: reversible backpropagation

Author: @josh146 keeping this page minimalistic, I'm having second thoughts on having this list in here. With new QNodes introduced, this will also have to be extended. How about we keep the reference to the list of QNodes?

These qnode types are available to users through the :func:`~.qnode` decorator by
passing the user-facing ``diff_method`` option. This decorator then uses the
:func:`~.QNode` constructor function to create the specific type of qnode based on
the device, interface, and quantum function.

A widespread representation of quantum circuits is by creating a `Directed
Acyclic Graph (DAG)
<https://pennylane.ai/qml/glossary/hybrid_computation.html#directed-acyclic-graphs>`__
and representing quantum operations within such a graph. Each ``QNode``
represents the quantum circuit by building such a DAG by creating a
:class:`~.CircuitGraph` instance.

For further details on QNodes, and a full list of QNodes, refer to the
:doc:`/code/qml_qnodes` module.

Interfaces
**********

The integration between classical and quantum computations is encompassed by
interfaces. Differentiable and Jacobian ``QNodes`` have interfacing functions
that provide a 'wrapper' around QNodes such. These wrappers further transform
the ``QNode`` such that the quantum gradient rules of the QNodes are registered

> to the machine learning interface via a custom gradient class or function.

Reviewer 2: I suppose we could go into further detail here with what exactly an interface function does.

* It wraps the QNode, returning a QNode that accepts and returns the core data structure of the classical machine learning library (e.g., a TF tensor, Torch tensor, Autograd NumPy array, etc).

* It _unwraps_ the input data structures to simple NumPy arrays, so that the quantum device can execute the
  users quantum function.

* It registers the `QNode.jacobian()` method as a custom gradient method, so that the machine learning library can 'backpropagate' across the QNode, when integrated into a classical computation.

@co9olguy has a nice diagram that represents the unwrapping and evaluation performed by interfaces :)

We refer to the :ref:`intro_interfaces` page for a more in-depth introduction
and a list of available interfaces.

Key design details
##################

The following are key design details related to how PennyLane works internally.

Operators
*********

Quantum operators are incorporated by the :class:`~.Operator` class which
contains basic information about the operator (e.g. number of parameters,
number of wires it acts on, etc.) and further convenience methods (e.g.
:attr:`~.Operator.matrix`, :attr:`~.Operator.eigvals`.

Two important subclasses of the ``Operator`` class are:

* the :class:`~.Operation` class representing quantum gates and
* the :class:`~.Observable` representing quantum observables specified for
  measurement.

Together with ``Operator``, these classes serve as base classes for quantum
operators.

Certain operators can serve as both quantum gates and observables (e.g.
:class:`~.PauliZ`, :class:`~.PauliX`, etc.). Such classes inherit from both

> ``Operation`` and ``Observable`` classes.

Reviewer 2: Nice!

> Quantum operator instances, in general, are used to build quantum functions
> which are used within ``QNode`` instances. Users can define such quantum

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Quantum operators are used to build quantum functions
which are evaluated by a ``QNode`` on a bound device. Users can define such quantum
```

> functions by creating regular Python functions and incorporating ``Operator``
> instances.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
functions by creating regular Python functions and instantiating ``Operator``
instances in temporal order, one per line.
```

The following is an example of this using the :func:`~.qnode` decorator and a
valid pre-defined device (``dev``).

.. code-block:: python

    @qml.qnode(dev)
    def circuit():
        qml.PauliX(0)
        return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0))

This syntax of PennyLane results in the Operator instances not being "recorded"
by the Python function. What is more, there is actually *no composition logic*
in between the ``QNode`` that is being created and the ``Operator`` instances
(``qml.PauliX(0)`` and ``qml.PauliZ(0)``), as there are merely class

> instantiations happening upon calling the ``circuit`` quantum function.

Reviewer 2: This paragraph is a bit unclear to me 🤔

Author: I've reworded it a bit, do you think it's better or would there be further things that are unclear?

How does then PennyLane keep track of which ``Operations`` and ``Observables``
were instantiated within a quantum function? The solution to this problem is
related to the queuing of operators.

Queuing of operators
********************

In PennyLane, the construction of quantum gates is separated from the specific
quantum node (:class:`~.BaseQNode`) that they belong to. The reason for this is
that, as mentioned before, the syntax of how ``Operator`` instances are
included in quantum functions does not rely on or use ``QNode`` instances.
Therefore, ``QNodes`` cannot keep track by default, which operators were
included in the quantum function. A high-level object that holds information
about the relationship between quantum gates and a quantum node can, however,
help with this.

The :class:`~.QueuingContext` class realizes this by providing access to the
current QNode using the concept of a Python context manager. This is achieved

> by inheriting the ``BaseQNode`` class from ``QueuingContext``.  Furthermore, it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
by subclassing the ``BaseQNode`` class from ``QueuingContext``.  Furthermore, it
```

provides the flexibility to have multiple objects record the creation of
quantum gates.

Details of queueing and specific operators can be described as follows:

* ``Operators`` in a quantum function are queued on initialization.  This

>   happens via a call to :meth:`Operator.queue` which then interacts with the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  happens via a call to :meth:`.Operator.queue` which then interacts with the parent
```

Author: The `QueuingContext` is not a parent to the `Operator` class, but a parent to `BaseQNode`

  ``QueuingContext``;
* ``Observables`` do not queue themselves; the measurement functions
  :meth:`~.measure.expval`, :meth:`~.measure.var` etc. do the queueing. Hence, observables
  can be instantiated before queueing;
* Already instantiated operators cannot be re-queued unless the ``op.queue``
  method is manually called within the ``QueuingContext``.

The ``QueuingContext`` class both acts as the abstract base class for all
classes that expose a queue for Operations (so-called contexts), as well as the
interface to these queues. The active contexts contain maximally one QNode and
an arbitrary number of other contexts like the :class:`~.OperationRecorder`.

``OperationRecorders`` are context managers that help record the quantum
operations instantiated within the context and can play a key role in testing.

Variables
*********

Circuit parameters in PennyLane are tracked and updated using

> :class:`~.Variable`. They play a key role in the evaluation of a ``QNode`` as
> the symbolic parameters are substituted with numeric values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:class:`~.Variable`. They play a key role in the evaluation of ``QNode`` gradients, as
the symbolic parameters are substituted with numeric values. The ``Variable`` class plays
an important role in book-keeping, allowing PennyLane to keep track of which parameters are
used in which operations, and automatically perform the product and chain rule where required.
```

.. role:: html(raw)
   :format: html

Architectural overview
======================

PennyLane allows optimization and machine learning of quantum and hybrid
quantum-classical computations by integrating several key components. A
*quantum device* can be matched with a *quantum node* to return statistics upon
evaluation. To process these, *interfaces* allow using familiar classical
frameworks. Built-in *optimizers* help on the way to finding desired
parameters to the quantum circuit.

In most cases, computations with PennyLane are performed on a local machine
using a simulator. Through using PennyLane plugins, one can, however, also
utilize remote quantum devices and simulators.

Components of PennyLane
#######################

.. image:: architecture_diagram.png

>     :width: 800px

Reviewer 3: yeah, this one is quite old, and doesn't do that great a job. For instance, the "Quantum device" should really be a picture of a device, not a picture of a circuit

Devices
*******

In PennyLane, the abstraction of a quantum device is encompassed within the
:class:`~.Device` class, making it one of the basic components of the
library. It includes basic functionality that is shared for quantum
devices, independent of the qubit and CV models. PennyLane gives access to
multiple simulators and hardware chips through its plugins, each of these
devices is implemented as a custom class. These classes have the
``Device`` class as their parent class.

A ``QNode`` is another important component in PennyLane (later detailed), they

> serve as the abstraction for quantum circuits to be run on a device.

Author: True, removed it!

The purpose of the ``Device`` class can be summarized as:

* Providing a common API for QNodes to execute a quantum circuit and request
  the measurement of the associated observable.
* Providing an easy way of developing a new device for PennyLane that
  can be used with QNodes.

Qubit based devices can use shared utilities by using the
:class:`~.QubitDevice`.

> :html:`<div class="state_vec_list" id="aside1"><a data-toggle="collapse" data-parent="#aside1" href="#content1" class="collapsed"><p class="first admonition-title">Statevector simulators (click to expand) <i class="fas fa-chevron-circle-down"></i></p></a><div id="content1" class="collapse" data-parent="#aside1" style="height: 0px;">`

Author: True, I was also hesitating about this! Removed it from here

.. list-table::
   :widths: 35 45 60 
   :header-rows: 1

   * - **Device**
     - **Shortname**
     - **Description**
   * - :class:`~.DefaultGaussian`
     - ``"default.gaussian"``
     - Default gaussian device
   * - `Strawberry Fields Fock device <https://pennylane-sf.readthedocs.io/en/latest/devices/fock.html>`__
     - ``"strawberryfields.fock"``
     - Fock device giving access to the Strawberry Fields Fock state simulator backend
   * - `Strawberry Fields Gaussian device <https://pennylane-sf.readthedocs.io/en/latest/devices/gaussian.html>`__
     - ``"strawberryfields.gaussian"``
     - Gaussian device giving access to the Strawberry Fields Fock state simulator backend

:html:`</div></div>`

QNodes
******

A  quantum  node or ``QNode`` (represented by a subclass to
:class:`~.BaseQNode`) is an encapsulation of a function :math:`f(x;θ):R^m→R^n`
that is executed using quantum information processing on a quantum
device.

Each ``QNode`` represents the quantum circuit by building a

> :class:`~.CircuitGraph` instance, but the way differentiation is done is custom

Reviewer 3: This might be confusing to readers, since (I don't believe) CircuitGraph is not mentione elsewhere in the doc

Author: included further details

> to the differentiation method offered by the ``QNode``.

Reviewer 2: In addition, there is a distinction between differentiable QNodes (those that inherit from `JacobianQNode`) and 'non-differentiable' QNodes (`BaseQNode`, `PasshthruQNode`).

> to the differentiation method offered by the ``QNode``.

Reviewer 3: Maybe worthwhile to start off with an overview/reminder of the core functionality provided by PennyLane (e.g., circuit evaluation & gradients on diverse quantum hardware, all connected to classical machine learning libraries), and use that as a motivator for what role all of the components play?

> to the differentiation method offered by the ``QNode``.

Author: Thanks, great ideas! Extended the introduction with ideas on the core functionality of PL and added a list on diff rules

For further details on qnodes, the mutability of qnodes we refer to
:class:`~.BaseQNode` and for a list of qnodes to :ref:`qml_qnodes`.

> 

Author: Added!

Interfaces
**********

The integration between classical and quantum computations is encompassed by
interfaces.

We refer to the :ref:`intro_interfaces` page for a more in-depth introduction

> and a list of available interfaces.

Reviewer 2: I think some additional developer details regarding the interfaces should go here (e.g., that an interface is simply a 'wrapper' around _differentiable/Jacobian_ QNodes such that the the QNode's quantum gradient rules are registered to the ML interface via a custom gradient class/function.

Author: That a great point, included it!

Optimizers
**********

Optimizers are objects which can be used to automatically update the parameters
of a quantum or hybrid machine learning model.

We refer to the :ref:`intro_ref_opt` page for a more in-depth introduction

> and a list of available optimizers.

Reviewer 2: As above, I'm thinking we remove this, as Optimizers are really 'core'.

Key design details
##################

The following are key design details related to how PennyLane works internally.

Queuing of operators

> ********************

Reviewer 2: I think this is great to include! However, we could potentially include more specifics; e.g.,

* Operations are queued on initialization, via a call to `Operation.queue()`

* Already instantiated operations cannot be re-queued unless `op.queue()` is manually called within the queueing context.

* `Observables` do not queue themselves; the _measurement functions_ `qml.expval`, `qml.var` etc. do the queueing. Hence, observables _can_ be instantiated before queueing.

It also seems a good place to mention the `OperationRecorder`.

Author: Great points, added them! :100:

In PennyLane, the construction of quantum gates is separated from the specific
quantum node (:class:`~.BaseQNode`) that they belong to. However, including
logic for this when creating an instance of :class:`~.Operator` does not align

> with the current architecture. Therefore, there is a need to use a high-level

Reviewer 3: I got a bit confused reading this paragraph. I imagine a reader might not understand everything that is mentioned

Author: rephrased it, and hopefully, the end of the new `Operators` section would also serve as a good basis for this section

object that holds information about the relationship between quantum gates and
a quantum node.

The :class:`~.QueuingContext` class realizes this by providing access to the current
QNode.  Furthermore, it provides the flexibility to have multiple objects
record the creation of quantum gates.

The ``QueuingContext`` class both acts as the abstract base class for all
classes that expose a queue for Operations (so-called contexts), as well as the
interface to said queues. The active contexts contain maximally one QNode and

> an arbitrary number of other contexts like the :class:`~.OperationRecorder`.

Author: mostly preferred placing pointer links such that we only have to maintain a text at one place. This one is an exception as the text is also part of the docstring of the QueuingContext class. (was unsure how this could be referenced easily there :thinking:)

the device, interface, and quantum function. If ``diff_method`` option is not
provided, the QNode constructor function attempts to determine the ``"best"``
differentiation method, based on the available device and interface.

A widespread representation of quantum circuits is by creating a `Directed
Acyclic Graph (DAG)
<https://pennylane.ai/qml/glossary/hybrid_computation.html#directed-acyclic-graphs>`__
and representing quantum operations within such a graph. Each ``QNode``
represents the quantum circuit by building such a DAG by creating a
:class:`~.CircuitGraph` instance.

For further details on QNodes, and a full list of QNodes, refer to the
:doc:`/code/qml_qnodes` module.

Interfaces
**********

The integration between classical and quantum computations is encompassed by
interfaces. QNodes that provide black-box gradient rules are 'wrapped' by an interface function.
that provide a 'wrapper' around QNodes such. These wrappers further transform
the ``QNode`` such that the quantum gradient rules of the QNodes are registered
to the machine learning interface via a custom gradient class or function.

An interface integrates QNodes with external libraries by the following:

> * It wraps the QNode, returning a QNode that accepts and returns the core data
> structure of the classical machine learning library (e.g., a TF tensor, Torch
> tensor, Autograd NumPy array, etc).
> * It unwraps the input data structures to simple NumPy arrays, so that the
> quantum device can execute the user's quantum function.
> * It registers the ``QNode.jacobian()`` method as a custom gradient method, so that
> the machine learning library can 'backpropagate' across the QNode, when
> integrated into a classical computation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* It wraps the QNode, returning a QNode that accepts and returns the core data
  structure of the classical machine learning library (e.g., a TF tensor, Torch
  tensor, Autograd NumPy array, etc).

* It unwraps the input data structures to simple NumPy arrays, so that the
  quantum device can execute the user's quantum function.

* It registers the ``QNode.jacobian()`` method as a custom gradient method, so that
  the machine learning library can 'backpropagate' across the QNode, when
  integrated into a classical computation.
```

:class:`~.PauliZ`, :class:`~.PauliX`, etc.). Such classes inherit from both
``Operation`` and ``Observable`` classes.

Quantum operators are used to build quantum functions
which are evaluated by a ``QNode`` on a bound device. Users can define such quantum
functions by creating regular Python functions and instantiating ``Operator``
instances in temporal order, one per line.

The following is an example of this using the :func:`~.qnode` decorator and a
valid pre-defined device (``dev``).

.. code-block:: python

    @qml.qnode(dev)
    def circuit():
        qml.PauliX(0)
        return qml.expval(qml.PauliZ(0))

This syntax of PennyLane results in the Operator instances not being "recorded"
by the ``QNode``. This is so because there is *no association or composition
logic* in between the ``QNode`` that is being created and the ``Operator``
instances: the ``QNode`` does not *contain* any instances of quantum operators.
By executing ``circuit``, instances of the ``qml.PauliX`` and ``qml.PauliZ``
classes are created, but they are not associated with the ``QNode`` itself.
This creates the problem of quantum functions (``circuit``) not being able to

> keep track of which quantum operations and observables are being applied.

Reviewer 2: I still find this paragraph a bit difficult to read 🤔 Perhaps it makes sense to remove it altogether, and simply go straight into describing queuing and circuit construction?

Per @co9olguy's comment, perhaps it makes sense to significantly reduce the details here (including the next subsection), and just outline what is happening in bullet point form. E.g.,

* QNode circuit construction doesn't happen until the QNode is evaluated.

* On QNode evaluation, the quantum function is executed.

  - Operators are queued to the QNode on instantiation, by having `Operator.__init__` call the `Operator.queue()` method. The operators themselves queue themselves to the surrounding :class:`~.QueuingContext`.

  - Measurement functions such as `qml.expval()` are responsible for queuing observables.

  :meth:`~.measure.expval`, :meth:`~.measure.var` etc. do the queueing. Hence, observables
  can be instantiated before queueing;
* Already instantiated operators cannot be re-queued unless the ``op.queue``
  method is manually called within the ``QueuingContext``.

The ``QueuingContext`` class both acts as the abstract base class for all
classes that expose a queue for Operations (so-called contexts), as well as the
interface to these queues. The active contexts contain maximally one QNode and
an arbitrary number of other contexts like the :class:`~.OperationRecorder`.

``OperationRecorders`` are context managers that help record the quantum
operations instantiated within the context and can play a key role in testing.

Variables
*********

Circuit parameters in PennyLane are tracked and updated using
:class:`~.Variable`. They play a key role in the evaluation of ``QNode`` gradients, as
the symbolic parameters are substituted with numeric values. The ``Variable`` class plays
an important role in book-keeping, allowing PennyLane to keep track of which parameters are
used in which operations, and automatically perform the product and chain rule where required.

> We refer to the :ref:`qml_variable` page for a more in-depth description of how

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We refer to the :doc:`/code/qml_variable` page for a more in-depth description of how
```
